# Selected Recent Data Science Projects

**Book Recommender System** ([paper](Book_Recommender_System/Goodreads_Report.pdf)) - Developed competency for big data management and analysis using Hadoop and PySpark by building a book recommendation system using data obtained from the book review website Goodreads in 2017. The dataset included approximately 223 million individual book ratings, across 2.4 million unique books and 876,000 unique users. Used alternating least squares (ALS) model in Spark to learn latent factor representations of users and books and t-SNE to visualize how the items are distributed in the learned space.

**Extreme Multilabel Classification** ([paper](Extreme_Multilabel_Classification/Extreme_Multilabel_Classification_Report.pdf)) - Demonstrated competencies in exploratory data analysis, model selection, hyperparameter tuning, and evaluation by way of an extreme multilabel classification setting. Models evaluated included multi-layer perceptron, ML-KNN, radius neighbors, FastXML, and CraftML (an algorithm specifically designed for extreme classification problems that reduces the dimensionality of the feature and label spaces using a series of random projections).

**Image Captioning Generator** ([paper](Image_Captioning_Generator/Flickr30k_Report.pdf)) - Developed an image captioning model based on the widely-used Flickr30k dataset to explore and analyze methods for optimizing Python code. Learned and demonstrated best practices in multiprocessing, threading, and using GPUs to optimize machine learning project code.

**College Graduate Earnings Prediction** ([paper](College_Graduate_Earnings_Prediction/Post_College_Earnings_Prediction.pdf)) - Using messy data from the US Department of Education College Scorecard dataset, explored several regression methods including linear regression, random forest, and gradient boosted trees, to (1) better predict the expected earnings of graduates from each college in the dataset and (2) identify the characteristics of a college that are most predictive in determining post-college earnings. Demonstrated competencies in data wrangling, exploratory data analysis, feature engineering, ML model selection and evaluation.
